---
uuid: 9ad8032d-4264-4f26-8ac3-b09b3ee2ffad
taxonomy-category-names:
- Platform
- Multi-Channel Experiences (Headless Delivery)
- Liferay Self-Hosted
- Liferay PaaS
- Liferay SaaS
---
# Using Liferay as a Headless Platform

Liferay provides a suite of APIs that perform the same kinds of actions available in the web interface. This is essential when you must get data in a machine-readable format, for example in writing mobile applications, custom web applications, or automated processes. While taking more effort than the out-of-the-box interface, it comes with even more power to get things done.

## Ways to Connect

There are three different approaches available for clients to connect to Liferay DXP via web API:
* [__Headless REST APIs__](#headless-rest-apis), conforming to the OpenAPI specification
* The [__GraphQL API__](#graphql-api) conforming to the GraphQL specification
* [__Plain Web/REST Services__](#plain-webrest-services), generated by Service Builder

### Headless REST APIs

Liferay's headless APIs allow [RESTful](https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/NOTE-ws-arch-20040211/#relwwwrest) interaction with Liferay DXP resources. These APIs follow the [OpenAPI specification](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/), which defines a standard for REST interfaces, allowing for more straightforward implementation and consumption.

To view detailed information on these APIs, use your browser and access Liferay's API Explorer at `[server]:[port]/o/api` (e.g. http://localhost:8080/o/api). Or in the command line, access the complete list with cURL. For example:

```
curl \
	"http://localhost:8080/o/api" \
	-u "test@liferay.com:learn"
```

The most relevant documentation is also available at `[server]:[port]/o/[api-name]/[api-version]/openapi.[yaml or json]` in a raw format. Documentation is also available on [SwaggerHub](https://app.swaggerhub.com/search?owner=liferayinc), but may not match if you are running a previous version.

To view the OpenAPI specifications for all the APIs, use your browser and access `[server]:[port]/o/api?endpoint=[server]:[port]/o/openapi/openapi.json`. (e.g. http://localhost:8080/o/api?endpoint=http://localhost:8080/o/openapi/openapi.json). Or download the full list in JSON format or YAML format with cURL. For example:

```bash
curl \
	"http://localhost:8080/o/openapi/openapi.json" \
	-o "openapi.json" \
	-u "test@liferay.com:learn"
```

```bash
curl \
	"http://localhost:8080/o/openapi/openapi.yaml" \
	-o "openapi.yaml" \
	-u "test@liferay.com:learn"
```

```{note}
Download of this full `openapi.[json|yaml]` file is available in Liferay DXP 7.4 U69/Liferay Portal 7.4 GA69 and above.
```

### GraphQL API

The [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) API is a query language that supports interactions similar to the headless REST APIs, but with slightly more flexibility. Liferay DXP exposes this API at `[server][:port]/o/graphql`.

You can find detailed information by exploring the API or its documentation through a [GraphQL client](https://graphql.org/graphql-js/graphql-clients/). Liferay includes a built-in client that can be found on a running instance at `[server][:port]/o/api` (select _GraphQL_ on the top-right). 

### Plain Web/REST Services

Liferay's Web Services are part of an older framework, still supported by DXP but no longer recommended for complex headless operations. These APIs are closely tied to Liferay DXP's internal workings and thus lack the power and flexibility that the newer headless options provide.

However, Web Services may provide a simpler way to execute certain tasks. See [Service Builder Web Services](../liferay-development/building-applications/data-frameworks/service-builder.md) for how to use them.

## Features

### Work with Any Client

Liferay's headless APIs serve data over the web, so any application capable of making web calls can serve as a client. These APIs respond with JSON content by default, but also support XML natively. Extensions can serve content in any other way you might need. See [API Headers Reference](./consuming-apis/api-headers-reference.md#accept) to learn more.

### Connect Securely

Just like with Liferay's web interface, all interactions via headless API are made using a particular User account (or as a guest). Liferay's APIs support three ways of authenticating: via basic authentication, via OAuth token, and via cookie. See [API Headers Reference](./consuming-apis/api-headers-reference.md#authorization) for how to make this happen. It's also possible to make API requests as a guest – see [Making Unauthenticated Requests](./consuming-apis/making-unauthenticated-requests.md) for more details.

### Keep Data Size Manageable

Working with large sets of data can quickly become overwhelming for a client to handle; performance issues are frustrating for users, and bandwidth can be expensive. Liferay's headless APIs provide ways to break down collections into manageable chunks and retrieve the exact data you want.

By passing `page` and `pageSize` parameters in a request, you can tell the API how much information you want at a time and which subset of information you want in a given request. The `sort` parameter is also effective in combination with paged responses, allowing you to indicate which elements should be returned first.

The `search` parameter executes a keyword search, yielding elements that contain that keyword in any part of their entries. The `filter` parameter executes a similar search, but specifies exactly where in the entry the content must be contained.

The `fields` parameter requests only specific fields to be enumerated in each of the elements in the response, and conversely the `restrictFields` parameter excludes the given fields from being returned.

The `flatten` parameter executes your request out of a hierarchical context, for hierarchical APIs. This allows you, for instance, to search for any Organization called "Marketing" rather than having to traverse the org-chart to find the relevant Organization.

For specifics on how to use any of these parameters see [API Headers Reference](./consuming-apis/api-headers-reference.md).

## Related Information

* [Consuming Rest Services](../headless-delivery/consuming-apis/consuming-rest-services.md)
* [Consuming GraphQL APIs](../headless-delivery/consuming-apis/consuming-graphql-apis.md)
