---
taxonomy-category-names:
- Development and Tooling
- Objects
- Liferay Self-Hosted
- Liferay PaaS
- Liferay SaaS
uuid: 013d44ac-a4a9-497b-85b2-be9b1fdcb23e
---
# Auto-Increment Fields

Auto-Increment fields are configurable read-only fields for uniquely identifying object entries in a human-readable format. For example, an IT ticketing system should generate a unique but meaningful identifier for each ticket, so users can refer to each entry easily. 

| Prefix | Starting Value | Suffix | Example Values |
|:------ |:-------------- |:-------|:---------------|
| life- | 2000 | -ray | life-2000-ray<br>life-2001-ray<br>life-2002-ray<br>...<br>life-3048-ray |
| none | 0 | none | 0<br>1<br>2<br>...<br>256 |
| FOO- | 01 | none | FOO-01<br>FOO-02<br>FOO-03<br>...<br>FOO-12 |

When adding an auto-increment field, you must configure the starting numeric value. Liferay adds `1` to this value for each subsequent object entry. Optionally, you can add a meaningful suffix and/or prefix to each numeric value.

When editing the field, you can change its label and configure whether and how it's searchable. 

The field cannot be required

Because it must be unique, you cannot import entries that have identical values to those already in the system.
My question: what happens when this is violated?

You can add the field to published objects, and you can add it to views and layouts

You can sort entries by this field

Supports page builder (what does this mean?)

Mappable like text fields

Use in actions as a variable

Use in validations as a variable

Use in notifications as a variable

What does this mean?
15 - Given an objects admin,
when managing object definitions,
then I must be able to import the object entries (POST API / Data Migration Center) considering the increment field


My opinion: most use cases will want this field searchable as a keyword, but the default is text. Can I recommend setting it to keyword in the docs?



13 - Given an objects admin,
when managing notifications,
then I must be able to use the increment field on notifications as a variable

14 - Given an objects admin,
when managing object definitions,
then I must be able to export the object entries considering the increment field

The system must not generate if there is already a value imported for it

16 - Given an objects admin,
when importing the object entries (POST API / Data Migration Center) considering the increment field,
then the highest number added must update the auto-increment count

Test Case

If I already have 3 entries (1, 2, 3) and I import 10, 

then next autogenerated will be 11

If I have 00010, 

Then We can add 00011 and we cannot add 11

17 - Given an end user,
When viewing a layout with an auto-increment field,
Then the user should not see the field value until the entry has been created in the database

Once the entry has been created, the end user will be able to see the field value as a read-only field

Notes
Definition of Done (DoD):
All Acceptance Criteria were passed;

Make sure that the expected automated tests were created (unit / integration / functional) and passed successfully;

Validated by QA and Product Manager;

No critical bug related to Story scope (FP5);

Make sure that all system documentation were updated (if necessary)
